I love whopping old stairs hi my name's
Steve Newman and this is one of my
favorite parts of London it's called the
whopping stairs or the whopping old
stairs and whopping itself is not very
far from Tower Bridge that it's just
around the corner by the Thames itself
and so the stairs are remnants from the
old days
going back to around the 18th century
but it's amazing because it's a I say a
hidden part and I love it because it
connects London to its history in a
sense well these are the stairs you can
see well-worn simply because they're an
indeterminate age really but roughly
around the 18th century and that was its
golden era this is when these stairs
actually led down to the river itself
and people basically used to use them to
catch boats to go up and down and across
the river itself ease wood ho westward
ho and all that but is equally true that
just by the river here the old ships
that were going into the Port of London
used to anchor so very soon Wapping
became sailor town one of the most
gruesome activities that happened down
here were hangings and we're talking
about the hangings of pirates and the
most famous part that was hanging down
here was Captain Kidd in 1701 he would
have come down here followed by a huge
procession of people all the way from
Newgate Prison until he was brought to
his place of execution which is why it's
called execution dock in his particular
case unfortunately when actually brought
him to the place where he was actually
hanged I'm afraid to say when they put
the rope around his neck and he was
pushed off as a rope snapped and he
ended up being stuck in the mud they
dragged him up again and they hang them
for a second time but that wasn't the
end
for him or any other pirates it was
actually hanging down here because then
he was chained or roped and tied to an
old post in the old Thames mud itself
and then they allow three tides to wash
over the body by which time the body
became rather bloated and black this is
where they say some say the expression
oh what a whopper came from because of
that bloated figure floating aimlessly
the water also just by a whopping old
stares is another surprise just behind
me here there used to be an old cell
where they used to hold prisoners before
they were transported over to Australia
or you can imagine those kind of things
don't happen anymore thank heavens and
of course by the 19th century sailor
town had gone to be replaced by
factories and warehouses which are very
heavily bombed damaged during the Second
World War on the Blitz when you had
seventy six nights and continuous
bombing mainly aimed at the Docklands
and around the river itself or most of
the industry was and about twenty
thousand as a result lost their lives
it's brilliant really in a sense that
these stairs were spared and that's why
I love them so much really because there
are just an echo back to the 18th
century in sailor town when the sailors
would be enjoying themselves in a free
and easy way down here in Wapping itself
you